#  1. What’s package.json and package-lock.json?

-  `package.json` works as a manifesto for projects documents containing metadata like name, version, dependencies. It simplifies the dependencies and version management required for a particular project to run on.

- `package-lock.json` is an autogenerated files that provides a detailed record of the dependency tree. It make sures that every developer working on the project is on the same version of dependencies which guarantees consistency.

- It also helps in optimizing dependency installation, which results faster and reliable installations.

#  2. What’s package.json and package-lock.json?

- `npm` stands for node package manager and `npx` stands for node package execute.

- `npm` helps us to install packages locally to a project or globally as well. We can install existing dependencies from `package.json` files as well as install new packages use `npm install < packageName >`

- `npx` helps us run/execute the binaries from local packages without interfering with the projects local env or scripts. We can simply use and run eg: `npx create-react-app demoApp` without having to install it globally.

# 3. What is Babel?

- Babel is a javascript transpiler that helps us convert the new javascript we use in out modern code into plain ES5 Js that helps us run our code in any browser. It is basically a converter that helps us write modern day code to previous versions.

# 4. What is a webpack?

- Web pack is a tool that helps us bundle our Js files and required assets like images, css, etc files into output files , helping us manage dependencies and optimize our code for the web.

- Web pack also creates a dependency graph to keep track to keep everything together.

# 5. What is useState?

- `{useState}` is a predefined hook and one of the most used hooks in reactJs. It is used to manage state of various components in react and how they interact with each other. It has array of 2 items which is the current value and the new updated value usually starting with a 'set'.

# 6. What is props drilling and state lifting?

- Props drilling can be defined as passing down of props from the Parent component to their respective children component that do not make any use of it but instead they again pass it down to another component and finally uses it.

- State lifting is a technique we use in React, where instead of each components having it’s own state, the state is lifted up to their closest common ancestor. Then, these states are passed down using props.


# 7. What is the ‘key’ attribute?

- `key` attribute in React is an unique way to indentify elements of the same type among it siblings during re-renders. The re-render includes processes like updating values, deleting and so on.

# 8. What is synthetic event?

- Synthetic events in React are cross-browser wrappers around the browser’s original event. It helps the react application to execute various events consistently in all browsers.

# 9. What is virtual dom?

- Virtual Dom is a replica representation of the real DOM created and saved by React which is one of the many reasons it is very popular. It creates a virtual DOM  and compare it (using diffing algorithm) with the real DOM and executes it components there before sending its updated changes to the real DOM of the browser. This helps in faster load time of web apps, helps us manage various states 

- The process React uses to update the actual DOM is called reconciliation.


# 10. What is useEffect? What are the different behaviors of useEffect? What is a dependency array?

- `useEffect` is a hook in React that lets you run side effects in your components. Side effects are things like fetching data, updating the DOM directly, or setting up a subscription.

- The useEffect hook in React can behave in different ways:

- `No Dependency Array`: Runs after every render.
 - `Empty Dependency Array`: Runs only once, after the initial render.
- `With Dependencies`: Runs after the initial render and whenever any of the specified dependencies change.

- The dependency array in useEffect is a list of values that the effect depends on. If any of these values change, the effect will re-run. If the array is empty, the effect only runs once.

# 11. What is useRef and When to Use It?

- `useRef` is a hook that lets gives a way to persist values across renders without causing a re-render. we can use it to:

- Access and interact with DOM elements.
-  Store mutable values that don't cause re-renders.
- Hold references to timers, intervals, or other mutable objects

# 12. How to reuse custom hooks in React?

- To reuse hook logic in React, we canb create a custom  JavaScript function that starts with "use" and uses other hooks inside it. This keeps our code DRY (Don’t Repeat Yourself) and organize it!

# 13 What are some differences between class and functional components?

- Some key differences between class and function components are:

- Class components use ES6 class syntax, while functional components are JavaScript functions.
- Class components use this.state and this.setState(), while functional components use the useState hook.
- Class components have access to lifecycle methods like componentDidMount, while functional components use the useEffect hook.
- Functional components tend to be more concise and easier to read.
- Class components require binding or arrow functions to handle 'this', while functional components don't have this issue

# 14 Explain what lifecycle is in a simple way. How do you manage it in class and functional components?

- Lifecycle refers to the different stages a component goes through, from creation to deletion.
- In class components we manage it using methods like `componentDidMount` , `componentDidUpdate`.
- In functional component we use `useEffect`

# 15 Explain immutability in one sentence.

- Immutability refers to a property or value that cannot be changed after it's created.


# 16 What is FLUX?

- Flux is a pattern for how data flows through a React application. The major idea about flux is that there can only be a single source of truth (store) and can be updated by triggering actions.

# 17 What is Redux? How do you use it with React components?

- Redux is a JS library that helps us write consistent and maintainable global state management.

- ` React-Redux ` helps us integrate Redux with our React Components. 

- To use it with React components we need to:

- Install redux using any package manager
- Create a redux store by passing a reducer function. The store will help us maintain the application state.
- We wrap the app with the `Provider` component and pass the store as a prop.
- Use Redux state and actions.

    - `useSelector`: Allows us to extract data from the redux store state.
    - `useDispatch`: Allows us to to access the `dispatch()` function so we can dispatch actionsto the store

- We define actions to help us handle different actions.

# 18. What is a reducer?

- A reducer is a function that receives the current state and an action object, then it decides on how to update the state if necessary and return the new state.

`(state, action) => newState`

# 19. How do you choose between ContextAPI and Redux for global state management?

- Both Redux and Context API provide a way to manage the state of our application in a predictable way.
- They also both provide a global state that can be accessed by any component in the component tree.

Some reasons to choose between ContextApi and Redux are:

## Complexity:
 - If the app has a lot of state to be managed then we can choose `Redux` as it helps us make app easy to debug using its given debugging UI and can help improve performance more.

## Simplicity:
- Context API is a good choice if we have a small to medium-sized application with simple state management needs. It can be simpler to use than Redux and can make passing data between components easier without having to manually pass props down at every level.

- At the end of the day, choice between the two depends on the specific needs of the application.

# 20 What is redux thunk and why do you want to use it?

- Redux Thunk is middleware that allows us to return functions, rather than just actions, within Redux.

- One of the main use cases for this middleware is for handling actions that might  be asynchronous, for example, using axios to send a GET request.

- Redux Thunk allows us to dispatch those actions asynchronously and resolve each promise that gets returned.