#  1. What’s package.json and package-lock.json?

-  `package.json` works as a manifesto for projects documents containing metadata like name, version, dependencies. It simplifies the dependencies and version management required for a particular project to run on.

- `package-lock.json` is an autogenerated files that provides a detailed record of the dependency tree. It make sures that every developer working on the project is on the same version of dependencies which guarantees consistency.

- It also helps in optimizing dependency installation, which results faster and reliable installations.

#  2. What’s package.json and package-lock.json?

- `npm` stands for node package manager and `npx` stands for node package execute.

- `npm` helps us to install packages locally to a project or globally as well. We can install existing dependencies from `package.json` files as well as install new packages use `npm install < packageName >`

- `npx` helps us run/execute the binaries from local packages without interfering with the projects local env or scripts. We can simply use and run eg: `npx create-react-app demoApp` without having to install it globally.

# 3. What is Babel?

- Babel is a javascript transpiler that helps us convert the new javacripts we use in out modern code into plain ES5 Js that helps us run our code in any browser. It is basically a converter that helps us write modern day code to previous versions.

# 4. What is a webpack?

- Web pack is a tool that helps us bundle our Js files and required assets like images, css, etc files into output files , helping us manage dependencies and optimize our code for the web.


